Introduction
Software Defined Networking (SDN) and Network Function Virtualization (NFV) are both central to our modern network and cloud environments. Together they offer increased flexibility, scalability, and cost efficiencies; however, they also bring their own security challenges to address. This brief will provide an overview of SDN and NFV, their benefits and their associated threats.

Software Defined Networking (SDN): Benefits and Threats:
In traditional network architecture, the control plane (which defines the traffic routing and network topology) and the data plane (which physically handles the traffic based on the configurations supplied by the control plane) are integrated (Raza & Hertvik, 2020). SDN is a network architecture that decouples the network configuration and traffic engineering from underlying hardware infrastructure allowing for programmatic management, control, and optimization using open APIs (Raza & Hertvik, 2020). One example of SDN is Google s B4 network which uses SDN to dynamically manage traffic between data centers around the world (Jain et al.)

Benefits of SDN include centralized network control, flexibility and dynamic scaling, vendor neutrality, and optimized performance. These features allow organizations to automate network management, reduce operational complexity, and adapt quickly to the demands of modern business IT (Raza & Hertvik, 2020). Additionally, SDN can be adopted gradually by applying SDN to specific use cases first. (Raza & Hertvik, 2020).
SDN is not without its associated threats. These threats include spoofing, tampering, repudation, information disclosure, denial of service, and elevation of privileges (Open Networking Foundation, 2016). According to the Open Networking Foundation (2016) "For the most part, the types of attacks are not new, and there are existing mature measures to deal with them"

Network Function Virtualization (NFV): Benefits and Threats:
Traditionally, network functions require dedicated specialized hardware, such as load balancers, firewalls, and routers. NFV is a network architecture process that moves network functions from dedicated specialized hardware to virtual machines (Quiroz-Vazquez & Goodwin, 2024). NFV consists of virtualized network functions (VNFs), network functions virtualization infrastructure (NFVI), and management automation and network orchestration (MANO) (Quiroz-Vazquez & Goodwin, 2024). VNFs are software-based versions of services like routing, intrusion detection, and file sharing which can be linked together through "service chaining" to automate resource provisioning and optimize traffic (Quiroz-Vazquez & Goodwin, 2024). NFVI includes the virtualized abstraction of specialized hardware as virtual machines (VMs). Hypervisors are used to allow multiple of these VMs to run on the same physical machine (Quiroz-Vazquez & Goodwin, 2024). MANO orchestrates and manages VNFs and NFVI (QuirozVazquez & Goodwin, 2024). One example of NFV in action is Turkcell's Unified Telco Cloud. Using Red Hat OpenStack Platform Turkcell migrated from a traditional hardware based system to software and cloud based NFV systems which helped them cut launch times for new services by 66% (Red Hat, 2020).

Benefits of NFV include reduced costs, improved scalability, and rapid deployment. NFV helps reduce cost by reducing the amount of hardware an organization needs, as multiple VMs can be run on the same server, and by extending the lifecycle of network hardware (Quiroz-Vazquez & Goodwin, 2024). The virtualization of these functions and their associated hardware also result in improved scalability and rapid deployment as this allows for organizations to use remote resources from cloud providers instead of physically obtaining and setting up physical hardware. NFV can also simplify the implementation of network upgrades and enable automated deployment of features and applications (Quiroz-Vazquez & Goodwin, 2024).
NFV introduces new security challenges and threats. If the virtual layer is breached, all VMs are exposed to direct attack (Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., 2017). While resource sharing and multi-tenancy are strength of NFV this also increases the risk of data leaks and cross-tenant attacks (Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., 2017). Traditional static security policies that rely on physical division are ineffect and NFV shares risks associated with virtualization and open-source software (Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., 2017).

Conclusion
As we continue to modernize our network infrastructure, it is important that our teams understand the benefits and security challenges of Software Defined Networking (SDN) and Network Function Virtualization (NFV). These offer advantages in terms of scalability, efficiency, and operational flexibility. However, with these benefits come trade-offs in the form of security threats and challenges. By staying informed and attending to these challenges we can leverage the advantages of SDN and NFV while maintaining the security and resilience of our network infrastructure. 

